unlike other ultrasonics two scales that
use a conventional scraper or jackhammer
approach to to scaling the 42:12 adopts
a more gentle technique it utilizes a
revolutionary rotational tip movement
and high ultrasonic frequency to remove
plaque and calculus quickly with less
enamel damage and less heat this is
similar to an ultrasonic instrument or
jury cleaner in the way it works
the 42:12 can be safely used
subjectively up to 13 millimeters with
little or no enamel damage the tip is
made from titanium and is totally round
with no sharp science the whole shaft is
active unlike a piezo or a cover tron
where you use either side the 42:12 is
controlled by the switch on the
handpiece eliminating the need for a
foot pedal to operate the scaler simply
turn the unit on at the back adjust the
power levels will recommend three to
four lights for general scaling and
activate the switch by pulling the ring
back once you've activated the switch
simply adjust your water flow so you get
a nice mist we would also suggest before
scaling the teeth that you apply icy
plaque a plaque disclosing solution this
allows plaque to become visible and
reduce the time it takes to scale and
ensure you remove all the plaque and
calculus during the procedure
to maintain the 42:12 scaler you should
clean the exterior surfaces you can
order Club the handpiece and tips
complete with a ferrite rod remember to
remove the silicon switch protector when
all our carving the handpiece use
distilled water to prevent minerals and
contaminations in the corn supply
when the scale is being used we
recommend the operator use the Quarian
pad place an extra animal's head and
we're not using the scaler clip the
handpiece in this prevents a handpiece
dropping to the floor and breaking the
ferrite rod if it does break you'll need
to change the ferrite rod the tools
required are supplied with the 4212 and
you also receive a spare rod